AndreasBortfeldtHermannGehring (2001). "https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0377221700000552." European Journal of operational research 131(1): 143-161.
	This paper presents a hybrid genetic algorithm (GA) for the container loading problem with boxes of different sizes and a single container for loading. Generated stowage plans include several vertical layers each containing several boxes. Within the procedure, stowage plans are represented by complex data structures closely related to the problem. To generate offspring, specific genetic operators are used that are based on an integrated greedy heuristic. The process takes several practical constraints into account. Extensive test calculations including procedures from other authors vouch for the good performance of the GA, above all for problems with strongly heterogeneous boxes.

E.E.BischoffM.S.W.Ratcliff (1995). "Issues in the development of approaches to container loading." Omega 23(4): 377-390.
	The paper argues that existing approaches to container loading problems are each applicable only to a narrow part of the spectrum of situations encountered in practice and that there are many scenarios for which there are no adequate methodologies. A number of examples are given. Two approaches aimed at addressing some of the present limitations are discussed. One is designed to produce stable, evenly distributed packing patterns; the other caters for multi-drop loads. A comprehensive performance analysis using both published and randomly generated test problems is presented. The procedure used to create the latter is described in full to enable replication. It is shown that the two methods, when combined, provide a powerful and versatile tool.

Fanslau, T. and A. B. (2009). "Full Access
A Tree Search Algorithm for Solving the Container Loading Problem." Informs Journal on Computing 22(2).
	This paper presents a tree search algorithm for the three-dimensional container loading problem (3D-CLP). The 3D-CLP is the problem of loading a subset of a given set of rectangular boxes into a rectangular container so that the packing volume is maximized. The method includes two variants: the full-support variant guarantees full support from below for all packed boxes, although this constraint is not taken into account by the nonsupport variant. The guillotine cut constraint is considered by both variants. The method is mainly based on two concepts. On the one hand, the block building approach is generalized. Not only are blocks of identical boxes in the same spatial orientation applied but also blocks of different boxes with small inner gaps. On the other hand, the tree search is carried out in a special fashion called a partition-controlled tree search. This makes the search both efficient and diverse, enabling a sufficient search width as well as a suitable degree of foresight. The approach achieves excellent results for the well-known 3D-CLP instances suggested by Bischoff and Ratcliff [Bischoff, E. E., M. S. W. Ratcliff. 1995. Issues in the development of approaches to container loading. Omega23(4) 377–390] with reasonable computing time.
Previous
Back to Top
Next

Reinaldo Morabito, M. A. (1994). "An AND/OR-graph approach to the container loading problem,
International Transactions in Operational Research."  1(1): 59-73.
	The container loading problem consists of packing boxes of various sizes into available containers in such a way as to optimize an objective function. In this paper we deal with the special case where there is just one available container and the objective is to maximize the total volume (or the total utility value, supposing that each box has a utility value) of the loaded boxes. We firstly present three heuristic solution methods for the unconstrained problem. Two of them solve the original three-dimensional problem by layers and by stacks reducing it into several problems with lower dimensions. The third one consists of representing possible loading patterns as complete paths in an AND/OR-graph. Bounds and heuristics are proposed in order to reduce the solution space. A proper heuristic is also given to treat the constrained problem by using the AND/OR-graph approach. Moreover, computational results are presented by solving a number of examples.

Scheithauer, G. (1992). Algorithms for the Container Loading Problem, Berlin, Heidelberg, Springer Berlin Heidelberg.
	In this paper we consider the three-dimensional problem of optimal packing of a container with rectangular pieces. We propose an approximation algorithm based on the “forward state strategy” of dynamic programming. A suitable description of packings is developed for the implementation of the approximation algorithm, and some computational experience is reported.

